The more I thought of it the more extraordinary did my companion's
hypothesis, that the man had been poisoned, appear. I remembered how
he had sniffed his lips, and had no doubt that he had detected
something which had given rise to the idea. Then, again, if not
poison, what had caused the man's death, since there was neither
wound nor marks of strangulation? But, on the other hand, whose blood
was that which lay so thickly upon the floor? There were no signs of
a struggle, nor had the victim any weapon with which he might have
wounded an antagonist. As long as all these questions were unsolved,
I felt that sleep would be no easy matter, either for Holmes or
myself. His quiet self-confident manner convinced me that he had
already formed a theory which explained all the facts, though what it
was I could not for an instant conjecture.

He was very late in returning--so late, that I knew that the concert
could not have detained him all the time. Dinner was on the table
before he appeared.

"It was magnificent," he said, as he took his seat. "Do you remember
what Darwin says about music? He claims that the power of producing
and appreciating it existed among the human race long before the
power of speech was arrived at. Perhaps that is why we are so subtly
influenced by it. There are vague memories in our souls of those
misty centuries when the world was in its childhood."

"That's rather a broad idea," I remarked.

"One's ideas must be as broad as Nature if they are to interpret
Nature," he answered. "What's the matter? You're not looking quite
yourself. This Brixton Road affair has upset you."

"To tell the truth, it has," I said. "I ought to be more
case-hardened after my Afghan experiences. I saw my own comrades
hacked to pieces at Maiwand without losing my nerve."

"I can understand. There is a mystery about this which stimulates the
imagination; where there is no imagination there is no horror. Have
you seen the evening paper?"

"No."

"It gives a fairly good account of the affair. It does not mention
the fact that when the man was raised up, a woman's wedding ring fell
upon the floor. It is just as well it does not."

"Why?"

"Look at this advertisement," he answered. "I had one sent to every
paper this morning immediately after the affair."

He threw the paper across to me and I glanced at the place indicated.
It was the first announcement in the "Found" column. "In Brixton
Road, this morning," it ran, "a plain gold wedding ring, found in the
roadway between the 'White Hart' Tavern and Holland Grove. Apply Dr.
Watson, 221b, Baker Street, between eight and nine this evening."